![a) Study of software projects found that 53% of projects exceeding their budgets by a factor of 2.9 and overshot their schedule by a factor of 3.2 and another 31% of software projects were cancelled before completion (standish95). The estimated annual cost in the United States for such software projects was `$`100B.  b) Survey of members of the British Computer Society found that only 130 of 1027 projects met their schedule and budget. Half of all projects were maintenance or data conversion projects and half new development projects, but the successful projects divided into 127 of the former and just 3 of the latter (taylor00). c) Survey of 250 large projects, each with the equivalent of more than a million lines of C code, found similarly disappointing results (Jones04). d) Survey listing just the large examples of 50,000 projects, in that they cost at least `$`10M in development (standish13).   It has the most dismal outcomes,  suggesting that HealthCare.gov had just a 10% chance of success.](ch_intro/figs/SoftwareProjectsSurveys3.jpg)  
a) Study of software projects found that 53% of projects exceeding their budgets by a factor of 2.9 and overshot their schedule by a factor of 3.2 and another 31% of software projects were cancelled before completion (standish95). The estimated annual cost in the United States for such software projects was `$`100B.  b) Survey of members of the British Computer Society found that only 130 of 1027 projects met their schedule and budget. Half of all projects were maintenance or data conversion projects and half new development projects, but the successful projects divided into 127 of the former and just 3 of the latter (taylor00). c) Survey of 250 large projects, each with the equivalent of more than a million lines of C code, found similarly disappointing results (Jones04). d) Survey listing just the large examples of 50,000 projects, in that they cost at least `$`10M in development (standish13).   It has the most dismal outcomes,  suggesting that HealthCare.gov had just a 10% chance of success.